## Heroku
- Heroku is a container-based cloud Platform as a Service (PaaS). Developers use Heroku to deploy, manage, and scale modern apps. ... Heroku is fully managed, giving developers the freedom to focus on their core product without the distraction of maintaining servers, hardware, or infrastructure.
  - Allows you to deploy a Node.js in minutes.
  - Need to have  Node.js and npm installed locally.  It also requires you to have Git, a version control system.
  - You have to install the Heroku Command Line Interface (CLI) locally.
    - You use the CLI to manage and scale your applications, provision add-ons, view your application logs, and run your application locally.
- You then clone a local version of the application that you can then deploy to Heroku, execute the following commands in your local command shell or terminal:  
```git clone https://github.com/URL you'd like to clone```  
```cd node-js-getting-started```
  - You now have a functioning Git repository that contains a simple application as well as a package.json file, which is used by Node’s dependency manager.
- Then you create an app on Heroku, which prepares Heroku to receive your source code.  Usig the following command:
  - ```heroku create ``` 
  - When you create an app, a git remote (called heroku) is also created and associated with your local git repository.
  - Heroku generates a random name for your app, or you can pass a parameter to specify your own app name.
- Then to deploy the site, use the following command:
  - ```git push heroku master```
  - The application is now deployed. Ensure that at least one instance of the app is running:
    - ```heroku ps:scale web=1```
- Now you can visit the app at the URL generated by its app name. As a handy shortcut, you can open the website as follows:
  - ```heroku open```
- Heroku treats logs as streams of time-ordered events aggregated from the output streams of all your app and Heroku components, providing a single channel for all of the events.
  - View information about your running app using one of the logging commands:
    - ```heroku logs --tail```
    - Visit your application in the browser again, and you’ll see another log message generated.
- Press Control+C to stop streaming the logs.

## Node.js
Node.js is an open source, cross-platform runtime environment, which allows you to build server-side and networking applications. It's written in JavaScript and can be run within the Node.js runtime on any platform.
- First you need to install it.
- Then you need to create a JavaScript file. Can name it server.js, as an example:  ```var http =require("http");
   http.createServer(function(request, response) {
  response.writeHead(200, {"Content-Type": "text/plain"});
  response.write("It's alive!");
  response.end();
}).listen(3000);```
- It's simple. It's tiny. But it's a server! Let's make sure it's working. Run at your terminal: ```node server.js```
  - Now, to be sure it's a web server and not just a piece of code that returns a single line of text, we'll use it as a server! You can check it with your smartphone. Let's suppose, your laptop's IP address within your local network is 192.168.1.101. You can connect to your server through the 3000th port (for this particular example) by typing http://192.168.1.101:3000/ in your browser.
- What you have is your own client-server model, which can fit in your bag! Take it any place you want! It will be a good idea to deploy our server online, so everyone could see it.

 

