# What Google learned From Its Quest to Build the Perfect Team
- Many of today’s most valuable firms have come to realize that analyzing and improving individual workers ­— a practice known as ‘‘employee performance optimization’’ — isn’t enough. As commerce becomes increasingly global and complex, the bulk of modern work is more and more team-based.  Research shows that time spent by managers and employees in collaborative activities has grown by 50 percent or more, over the last 2 decades. At many companies 3/4 of the worker's day is spent communicating with colleagues.
- Groups tend to innovate faster, see mistakes more quickly and find better solutions to problems. Studies also show that people working in teams tend to achieve better results and report higher job satisfaction.  Studies also show that profitability increases when workers are persuaded to collaborate more.
- Googles study found:
  - The most productive employees tend to build larger networks by rotating dining companions.
  - That good communication and avoiding micromanaging is critical.
  - They found that understanding and influencing group norms were the keys to improving teams.
    - Norms are the traditions, behavioral standards and unwritten rules that govern how we function when we gather: One team may come to a consensus that avoiding disagreement is more valuable than debate; another team might develop a culture that encourages vigorous arguments and spurns groupthink. Norms can be unspoken or openly acknowledged, but their influence is often profound. Team members may behave in certain ways as individuals — they may chafe against authority or prefer working independently — but when they gather, the group’s norms typically override individual proclivities and encourage deference to the team.
  - What distinguished the "good" teams from the dysfunctional groups was how teammates treated one another. The right norms, in other words, could raise a group’s collective intelligence, whereas the wrong norms could hobble a team, even if, individually, all the members were exceptionally bright.
    1. Conversational turn-taking- As long as everyone got a chance to talk, the team did well, But if only one person or a small group spoke all the time, the collective intelligence declined.
    1. Empathy- The good teams all had high "average social sensitivity" — a fancy way of saying they were skilled at intuiting how others felt based on their tone of voice, their expressions and other nonverbal cues.
- Psychological safety is a sense of confidence that the team will not embarrass, reject or punish someone for speaking up.  It's a team climate characterized by interpersonal trust and mutual respect in which people are comfortable being themselves.