# CSS

## Transforms
- With CSS3, the transform property allows new ways to position and alter elements. Now general layout techniques can be revisited with alternative ways to size, position, and change elements.  The transform property comes in 2 different settings, two-dimensional and three-dimensional. Each of these come with their own individual properties and values.
- Transform-syntax- The actual syntax for the transform property is quite simple, including the transform property followed by the value. The value specifies the transform type followed by a specific amount inside parentheses.  The transform property includes multiple vendor prefixes to gain the best support across all browsers. The un-prefixed declaration comes last to overwrite the prefixed versions, should a browser fully support the transform property.
- Two-dimensional-transforms-  Two-dimensional transforms work on the x and y axes, known as horizontal and vertical axes.
  - 2D rotate- Provides the ability to rotate an element from 0 to 360 degrees. Using a positive value will rotate an element clockwise, and using a negative value will rotate the element counterclockwise. The default point of rotation is the center of the element, 50% 50%, both horizontally and vertically.
  - 2D scale-  Allows you to change the appeared size of an element. The default scale value is 1, therefore any value between .99 and .01 makes an element appear smaller while any value greater than or equal to 1.01 makes an element appear larger.
    - It is possible to scale only the height or width of an element using the scaleX and scaleY values. The scaleX value will scale the width of an element while the scaleY value will scale the height of an element. To scale both the height and width of an element but at different sizes, the x and y axis values may be set simultaneously. To do so, use the scale transform declaring the x axis value first, followed by a comma, and then the y axis value.
  - 2D translate- works a bit like that of relative positioning, pushing and pulling an element in different directions without interrupting the normal flow of the document.  The translateX value will change the position of an element on the horizontal axis while using the translateY value will change the position of an element on the vertical axis.
  - 2D Skew- Used to distort elements on the horizontal axis, vertical axis, or both.  The skewX value distorts an element on the horizontal axis while the skewY value distorts an element on the vertical axis. To distort an element on both axes the skew value is used, declaring the x axis value first, followed by a comma, and then the y axis value.  The distance calculation of the skew value is measured in units of degrees. Length measurements, such as pixels or percentages, do not apply here.
  - It is common for multiple transforms to be used at once, rotating and scaling the size of an element at the same time for example. In this event multiple transforms can be combined together. To combine transforms, list the transform values within the transform property one after the other without the use of commas.  Using multiple transform declarations will not work, as each declaration will overwrite the one above it. The behavior in that case would be the same as if you were to set the height of an element numerous times.
  - Transform Origin-   can accept one or two values. When only one value is specified, that value is used for both the horizontal and vertical axes. If two values are specified, the first is used for the horizontal axis and the second is used for the vertical axis.
  - Perspective- In order for three-dimensional transforms to work the elements need a perspective from which to transform. The perspective for each element can be thought of as a vanishing point, similar to that which can be seen in three-dimensional drawings.  The perspective of an element can be set in two different ways. One way includes using the perspective value within the transform property on individual elements, while the other includes using the perspective property on the parent element residing over child elements being transformed.  When you want to transform a group of elements all with the same perspective, or vanishing point, apply the perspective property to their parent element.
    - Perspective Depth Value- The length value will set the depth of the perspective. The higher the value, the further away the perspective appears, thus creating a fairly low intensity perspective and a small three-dimensional change. The lower the value the closer the perspective appears, thus creating a high intensity perspective and a large three-dimensional change.
    - Perspective Origin- The origin of a perspective identifies the coordinates of the vanishing point of a transform.
- Three-dimensional transforms- Along with the x a and 7 axis, we can change elements on the z axis, giving us control of depth as well as length and width.  To do so, we use three new transform values, including rotateX, rotateY, and rotateZ.  Using the rotateX value allows you to rotate an element around the x axis, as if it were being bent in half horizontally. Using the rotateY value allows you to rotate an element around the y axis, as if it were being bent in half vertically. Lastly, using the rotateZ value allows an element to be rotated around the z axis.
  - 3D Scale- By using the scaleZ three-dimensional transform elements may be scaled on the z axis.  This isn’t extremely exciting when no other three-dimensional transforms are in place, as there is nothing in particular to scale.
  - 3D Translate- Elements may also be translated on the z axis using the translateZ value. A negative value here will push an element further away on the z axis, resulting in a smaller element. Using a positive value will pull an element closer on the z axis, resulting in a larger element.  The transform is taking place on the z axis, not the x or y axes.
  - Transform Style- n occasion three-dimensional transforms will be applied on an element that is nested within a parent element which is also being transformed. In this event, the nested, transformed elements will not appear in their own three-dimensional space. To allow nested elements to transform in their own three-dimensional plane use the transform-style property with the preserve-3d value.
    - The transform-style property needs to be placed on the parent element, above any nested transforms. The preserve-3d value allows the transformed children elements to appear in their own three-dimensional plane while the flat value forces the transformed children elements to lie flat on the two-dimensional plane.
  - Backface Visibility- When working with three-dimensional transforms, elements will occasionally be transformed in a way that causes them to face away from the screen. This may be caused by setting the rotateY(180deg) value for example. By default these elements are shown from the back.  The other value to backface-visibility is visible which is the default value, always displaying an element, no matter which direction it faces.

## Transitions and Animations
### Transitions
- One evolution with CSS3 was the ability to write behaviors for transitions and animations.  With CSS3 transitions you have the potential to alter the appearance and behavior of an element whenever a state change occurs, such as when it is hovered over, focused on, active, or targeted.  Animations within CSS3 allow the appearance and behavior of an element to be altered in multiple keyframes. Transitions provide a change from one state to another, while animations can set multiple points of transition upon different keyframes. 
- For a transition to take place, an element must have a change in state, and different styles must be identified for each state. The easiest way for determining styles for different states is by using the :hover, :focus, :active, and :target pseudo-classes.
- There are four transition related properties in total, including transition-property, transition-duration, transition-timing-function, and transition-delay. Not all of these are required to build a transition, with the first three are the most popular.
- Transitional Property-  determines exactly what properties will be altered in conjunction with the other transitional properties. By default, all of the properties within an element’s different states will be altered upon change. However, only the properties identified within the transition-property value will be affected by any transitions.  If multiple properties need to be transitioned they may be comma separated within the transition-property value. Additionally, the keyword value all may be used to transition all properties of an element.
  - Not all properties may be transitioned, only properties that have an identifiable halfway point. Colors, font sizes, and the alike may be transitioned from one value to another as they have recognizable values in-between one another. The display property, for example, may not be transitioned as it does not have any midpoint.
- Transition Duration- The duration in which a transition takes place is set using the transition-duration property. The value of this property can be set using general timing values, including seconds (s) and milliseconds (ms). These timing values may also come in fractional measurements.  
  - When transitioning multiple properties you can set multiple durations, one for each property.  As with the transition-property property value, multiple durations can be declared using comma separated values. The order of these values when identifying individual properties and durations does matter.
- Transition Timing- used to set the speed in which a transition will move. Knowing the duration from the transition-duration property a transition can have multiple speeds within a single duration. A few of the more popular keyword values for the transition-timing-function property include linear, ease-in, ease-out, and ease-in-out.
  - When transitioning multiple properties, you can identify multiple timing functions. These timing function values, as with other transition property values, may be declared as comma separated values.
- Transition Delay-  The delay sets a time value, seconds or milliseconds, that determines how long a transition should be stalled before executing. As with all other transition properties, to delay numerous transitions, each delay can be declared as comma separated values.
- Shorthand Transitions- there is a shorthand property, transition, capable of supporting all of these different properties and values. Using the transition value alone, you can set every transition value in the order of transition-property, transition-duration, transition-timing-function, and lastly transition-delay. Do not use commas with these values unless you are identifying numerous transitions.  To set numerous transitions at once, set each individual group of transition values, then use a comma to separate each additional group of transition values.
### Animations
- Used when more control is required, transitions need to have multiple states
- Animation Keyframes- To set multiple points at which an element should undergo a transition, use the `@keyframes` rule. The `@keyframes` rule includes the animation name, any animation breakpoints, and the properties intended to be animated.
- As with transitions only individual properties may be animated. Consider how you might move an element from top to bottom for example. Trying to animate from top: 0; to bottom: 0; will not work, because animations can only apply a transition within a single property, not from one property to another. In this case, the element will need to be animated from top: 0; to top: 100%;.
- Animation Name- Once the keyframes for an animation have been declared they need to be assigned to an element. To do so, the animation-name property is used with the animation name, identified from the @keyframes rule, as the property value. The animation-name declaration is applied to the element in which the animation is to be applied to.
- Animation Duration, Timing Function, & Delay- Once you have declared the animation-name property on an element, animations behave similarly to transitions. They include a duration, timing function, and delay if desired. To start, animations need a duration declared using the animation-duration property. As with transitions, the duration may be set in seconds or milliseconds.
  - A timing function and delay can be declared using the animation-timing-function and animation-delay properties respectively. The values for these properties mimic and behave just as they do with transitions.
- Customizing Animations- Animations also provide the ability to further customize an element’s behavior, including the ability to declare the number of times an animation runs, as well as the direction in which an animation completes.
  - Animation Iterations- By default, animations run their cycle once from beginning to end and then stop. To have an animation repeat itself numerous times the animation-iteration-count property may be used. Values for the animation-iteration-count property include either an integer or the infinite keyword. Using an integer will repeat the animation as many times as specified, while the infinite keyword will repeat the animation indefinitely in a never ending fashion.
  - Animation Direction- Allows declare the direction an animation completes using the animation-direction property. Values for the animation-direction property include normal, reverse, alternate, and alternate-reverse.  
    - The normal value plays an animation as intended from beginning to end. The reverse value will play the animation exactly opposite as identified within the @keyframes rule, thus starting at 100% and working backwards to 0%.
    - The alternate value will play an animation forwards then backwards.
    - Using the animation-iteration-count property may limit the number of times an animation runs both forwards and backwards. The count starts at 1 running an animation forwards from 0% to 100%, then adds 1 running an animation backwards from 100% to 0%. Combining for a total of 2 iterations.
    - The alternate value also inverses any timing functions when playing in reverse. If an animation uses the ease-in value going from 0% to 100%, it then uses the ease-out value going from 100% to 0%.
    - The alternate-reverse value combines both the alternate and reverse values, running an animation backwards then forwards. The alternate-reverse value starts at 100% running to 0% and then back to 100% again.
- Animation Play State- Allows an animation to be played or paused using the running and paused keyword values respectively. When you play a paused animation, it will resume running from its current state rather than starting from the very beginning again.
- Animation Fill Mode- identifies how an element should be styled either before, after, or before and after an animation is run. The animation-fill-mode property accepts four keyword values, including none, forwards, backwards, and both.
  - The none value will not apply any styles to an element before or after an animation has been run.
  - The forwards value will keep the styles declared within the last specified keyframe. These styles may, however, be affected by the animation-direction and animation-iteration-count property values, changing exactly where an animation ends.
  - The backwards value will apply the styles within the first specified keyframe as soon as being identified, before the animation has been run. This does include applying those styles during any time that may be set within an animation delay. The backwards value may also be affected by the animation-direction property value.
  - The both value will apply the behaviors from both the forwards and backwards values.
- Shorthand Animations- Just like transitions, can be written out in a shorthand format. This is accomplished with one animation property, rather than multiple declarations. The order of values within the animation property should be animation-name, animation-duration, animation-timing-function, animation-delay, animation-iteration-count, animation-direction, animation-fill-mode, and lastly animation-play-state.
### 8 Simple CSS3 Transitions
1. Fade in- It emphasizes functionality or draws attention to a call to action.  Coded in 2 ways, first set the initial state, and then set the change.
1. Change color- 
1. Grow and shrink-
1. Rotate elements-
1. Square to circle-
1. 3D Shadows-This effect is achieved by adding a box shadow, and then moving the element on the x axis using the transform and translate properties so that it appears to grow out of the screen.
1. Swing- 
1. Inset Border- 